ansible-galaxy - add download option (#67632)
ansible/ansible: docs/docsite/rst/user_guide/collections_using.rst

.. include:: ../shared_snippets/galaxy_server_list.txt

.. _collections_downloading:

Downloading collections
=======================

To download a collection and its dependencies for an offline install, run ``ansible-galaxy collection download``. This
downloads the collections specified and their dependencies to the specified folder and creates a ``requirements.yml``

> file which can be used to install those collections on a host without access to a Galaxy server. Just like the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
file which can be used to install those collections on a host without access to a Galaxy server. All the collections are downloaded by default to the ``./collections`` folder.

Just like the
```

``install`` command, the collections are sourced based on the
:ref:`configured galaxy server config <galaxy_server_config>`. Even if a collection to download was specified by a URL
or path to a tarball, the collection will be redownloaded from the configured Galaxy server.

Collections can be specified as one or multiple collections or with a ``requirements.yml`` file just like
``ansible-galaxy collection install``.

> To download a single collection and its dependencies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To download a single collection and its dependencies:
```

.. code-block:: bash

   ansible-galaxy collection download my_namespace.my_collection

> To download a single collection at a specific version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To download a single collection at a specific version:
```

.. code-block:: bash

   ansible-galaxy collection download my_namespace.my_collection:1.0.0

> To download multiple collection either specify multiple collections as command line arguments like above or use a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To download multiple collections either specify multiple collections as command line arguments as shown above or use a
```

requirements file in the format documented with :ref:`collection_requirements_file`.

.. code-block:: bash

   ansible-galaxy collection download -r requirements.yml

> All the collections are downloaded by default to the ``./collections`` folder but ``-p`` or ``--download-path`` can be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All the collections are downloaded by default to the ``./collections`` folder but you can use  ``-p`` or ``--download-path`` 
```

> used to specify another path

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to specify another path:
```

.. code-block:: bash

>    ansible-galaxy collection download my_namespace.my_collection -p /tmp/collections

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ansible-galaxy collection download my_namespace.my_collection -p ~/offline-collections
```

Reviewer: ...changed the dir so it matches the install example used later.

> Once the collection have been downloaded the folder will contain the collections specified, their dependencies, and a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have downloaded the collections, the folder contain sthe collections specified, their dependencies, and a
```

> ``requirement.yml`` file. This folder can be used as is by ``ansible-galaxy collection install`` to install them on a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``requirement.yml`` file. You can use this folder as is with  ``ansible-galaxy collection install`` to install the collections on a
```

host without access to a Galaxy or Automation Hub server.

.. code-block:: bash

>    # This must be run when in the directory that contains the offline collections and requirements.yml file downloaded

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   # This must be run from  the folder  that contains the offline collections and requirements.yml file downloaded
```

>    # by the internet connect host

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   # by the Internet-connect host
```
